The desires of the wife. When I said, sure, I'd like
to be chief of staff. And he said, well, you better
talk it over with Mimi. I said, well, I will. And he
said, better than that. I said, I'm going to talk to
her. So he called her, and she said, oh, yes, we'd be
delighted to do this. But I sure would like to live
across the street. But we were an island type of
thing. Across the street, you have privacy, a
backyard up against us. had a big high fence, and it
was a German field in the back. And for the price, he
said, sure, no problem at all. But he called up to
get permission. They said, absolutely not. He
said, but he'll move at his own expense. I said, we
don't care. In principle, we're not making any
movement. If he's there, it's a good policy. You
can't be moving people all around just because
they'd like a house across the street. But he went
ahead and went to bat and finally got authority for
us to do that. So Mimi was happy. And later on, I was
playing golf with
the chief of staff at Heidelberg. We were playing
out there one day. And he was getting ready to tee
off. It was the first time I'd played with him and
met him, you know. And he's almost his back sprint.
He said, wait a minute. Is your name Andrews? I
said, yeah. He said, are you Andrews? And he's
sitting on me, moving across the street. I said,
I'm guilty. I'm in. He said, you don't know what a
flap you caused on me. He wasn't mad at me at all, but
he was just retching on me for who I was. And I was the
one that caused this thing. And what helped me
there, General Sherman, I said, was really
another outstanding person. leader and a
gentleman. He was hopeful to get the 18th Airborne
Corps at Fort Bragg, and he didn't land to believe
he would after this assignment. But he got his
assignment instead of being Commanding General
of the 18th Airborne Corps, he was assigned to
Provo Marshal General in Washington. And there's
two reasons. One is he didn't like the job in
particular. But he said, why put an infantry
officer when we have qualified MPs? I think Maples
was an MP, wasn't he, before he became Inspector
General? Well, I don't know either. It doesn't
make any difference. And he named a BG we had right
there in Usarua. And he thought he was going to get
them. He said, why don't we get them here? Well,
they told him like they do anybody, a general law
says to take on it like anybody else. He said, well,
you'll either accept that job or we'll accept your
retirement. He said, okay, I'll retire. And he
retired. And sure enough, they had a plan that he
was going to get the Airbnb. This was only a
temporary job, waiting for somebody else to be
released. So he really outsmarted himself, but he
was a man of principle, so he retired. So I became
the commanding officer of 7th Army Support
Command, a major general's position as a colonel.
And I commanded it. Why didn't they send over a
major general? Well, he wasn't available at the
time. He came about three months later, something
like that. So General Bruce Clark was the
commanding general of USARUR there in
Heidelberg. And he used to write me letters. He's a
great letter writer. He'll have a thought during
the night. Another brilliant individual. And
they called him. They didn't call him back from
retirement. But instead of retirement, they sent
him to USARUR, waiting for somebody else. I don't
know what. military politics was, but he was in it.
But he has thoughts on all sorts of things, and he
writes it. He's a great writer. So he'd write me
letters on the subject. It could be almost
anything. And it would be addressed, Colonel
Theodore H. Andrews, Commanding General of 7th
Army Support Command. So...
At least I got a good official report on that. Of
course, this one was signed by not Bruce Clark, but
Gar Davidson, who was the Seventh Army
Commander. And I think that was a big boost. At this
time, well, a couple of years later, the United
States was gearing up for Vietnam, and of course,
support in Europe, the supplies in Europe
declined. Did you have any of that decline while
you were there from 1960 to 62, or was it two or...
Two or... Still, as far as the Army, or as far as the
military is concerned, Europe was sort of the
first line of defense. We were still following the
7th Army Support Command, and we had the
responsibility for supervising.
We positioned two armored division worth of
equipment in Europe. And that was just building up
for that. And then we had an exercise where they
exercised one division that got it there. They
brought them over and they took this out of storage
and went out on maneuvers on that. So we were still,
at that time, building up equipment. But I'm sure
later on they were drawing down, if they weren't
drawing down that, they were drawing down back
there in the States in National Guard. Did you have
any relations with the French? While we were
there? Did you personally deal with any of the
French generals or any colonels, any of their
officers? Well, we were invited in the French, as
you on the NATO lineup, you've got American zones,
the French zone, the German zone, British zone. I
was invited one time as a commander, I guess that's
when I was still in the 18th Infantry, to visit a
demonstration down in the French zone. That's
about the only time I had. Now, at the camp near
Kaiserslautern, when we first got there, that was
run by the French. It was called French Camp. But
later on, the Americans took it over completely.
No really direct on a day-to-day relationship.
Did you deal with any foreign governments at all,
or it was just basically dealing with support,
right? No, basically it was strictly Seventh
Army. And you had no problems as far as getting a
proper amount of supplies during this time? Not at
that time. Now, wait a minute. I'm going to
contradict myself. The equipment of 7th Army,
particularly that which we inherited from the 7th
Division, was not near up to the standard of the
equipment we had at Fort Ronnie. The jeep were
tired, deferred maintenance. You've probably
heard that if you've talked to generals. That was
the rule of the day. Anything could be deferred
because you didn't have spare parts of money for
it. It would be deferred. We got some new equipment
though. Front line ambulances, for example, we
got some new equipment. We got a piece of equipment
before we left Raleigh, a little self-propelled
cannon, which really turned out not to be too good.
So the austerity was there, there's no question
about that. Deferred maintenance on buildings
too. which they still, it's even worse now because
they've deferred it, deferred it, deferred it.
You were in Germany during the Russians' building
of the Berlin Wall and also during the time that
President Kennedy came to Germany and Berlin and
made his famous speech that I am a Berliner in 1961.
Do you remember that? Yeah, I was the 7th Army
Support Command. But by the way, my successor to
the 18th Infantry, He took the 18th Infantry. That
was the unit that went through, you know, to
Berlin. This was a test. They didn't know whether
it was going to be World War III or what it was
because the Germans had blockaded Berlin, you
know, and had stopped traffic on the Autobahn
going to Berlin. They did let the trains run,
continue to run. So the 18th Infantry went. to
Berlin who was welcomed by Vice President Johnson
as
he entered Berlin.
But I had no involvement in any of that at all. OK.
Now, on your next assignment as Deputy Chief of
Staff, in Fort McPherson in the Third Army. Is this
one when you were promoted to general? Yeah. Tell
me. I was selected. I got my star. When you were
selected. Okay, tell me how you found out that you
were selected. Well, this is a...
I had a friend named Chickalella
that was over in Europe at the same time. He was a G3
of the Corps. And Chickalella, he's a big
operator. He finally got promoted to major
general.
And I think he'd been promoted to brigadier
general. But I was at Fort McClellan, and old
Chickalella gave me a call. He said, say, I just saw
the list of officers that haven't been published
yet. But I saw the list that the board has
submitted. And I'm sure it's routine that they
approve, although Chief of Staff hadn't been
known to line out one officer one time because of a
physical problem that he knew about that
apparently nobody else knew about. But he said,
you're on the list. Of course, I was really elated
then because that's a great Of course, I didn't
tell anybody, but I had more sense than that.
That's just like talking about a no-hitter in a
game. You put the hoax on it. So time went on, and
finally the list came out. In the last little act,
my name wasn't on it. It was not? Yeah. So I thought,
gee, maybe old Chickalella was mistaken, or maybe
for some reason my name was taken off.
Because the chief of staff, can recommend you know
it's approved by the president sure and the
president could very well you could recommend
that you could eliminate somebody or maybe
something had been added the president has been
known to add names on the list not somebody else not
lately done though because you know they accept
because after all that you're going to have a lot of
screenings and so i really sweated that out see i
guess Sometimes they carry over to the next year,
but usually they don't because they throw it back
in and you all do it again in the next committee.
Because each year you've got new people becoming
eligible. And you have others that are dropping
off because of the age of them. But fortunately,
that year they had split it into two different
parts. And long in the fall, here comes out the new
list with me right at the head of the list.
Chickalilla was right. I celebrate it. But the
deputy chief of staff job there is, of course, just
as the name implies, you assist the chief of staff
of the Army in the paperwork.
What was the size of the Third Army and the
responsibilities? Boy, see, it included the...
It included 101st Airborne, 82nd, 18th Airborne
Corps, all of the schools were bidding in on the
troops. All of the troops and facilities in the
area
were headquartered in Atlanta all down south. The
First Army went north up in the And
so it was a lot of activity, a lot of paperwork, a lot
of budget problems, maintenance problems.
Sounds like a desk job. Oh, yeah. Did you like this
job as much as you liked being in Germany
commanding the battle group? Oh, no. No job
compared to that battle group. Do you think that
the battle group job was what you consider the
highlight of your career?
Well, my battalion in World War II, I think the 3rd
Battalion, because I was with it for quite some
time in a lot of different situations.
Those two jobs? I'd say the 18th was more of a joy
because this other was a...
You talk about responsibility, you get
responsibility for an infantry battalion in
combat. where you can really, that's when a
decision or judgment can, you're taking lives or
losing lives, or it can be successful. And that
hurts you. You get close to those people, it's like
losing a member of your family. Fortunately, when
you get replacements, you don't know every
soldier personally, but
it's still a, You know that every one of those wife,
in some cases, mother, father, you know, the whole
family. So when you see that mutilated body, that
really shouldn't stay with the unit in combat too
long because there is such a thing as battle to
take. Fortunately, I never did get it. I almost got
it one time because in San Pietro in Italy, we were
attacking and I was in a depression. Of course, I
got there because that what little
shelter we had was it. And I was there, and I called
in a hunch. Something said, get up and move. So I
just got up and moved over. And the artillery
liaison officer came up, and he got in the same
position. He just got there in a mortar round, hit
him in the back. He was on his stomach. And of
course, cut him in two. And while the two separate
parts of his body, his head looked up and looked
right at me. And he said something like, I'm here
that they got me, or something like that. Then you
start worrying or thinking about, am I having a
hunch? You know, you're inseparable. And of
course you're not. I don't know what to call that,
fate, or I don't know what it was. But you kind of
feel, maybe I'm the one who should. If I stayed
there, I'd say he was going somewhere else. So I can
go through my life from the very beginning and how
fortunate I have been in different situations. So
that's what I come back to as far as my career. I've
just been lucky. Just been lucky. Now, were you
happy to go to Korea?
Well, yes. Of course, I was so elated to be selected
for General Officer, you know, I was ready to go,
because now I'm starting out in a... And I had that
nice tour in Germany, and of course... Vietnam War
hadn't quite started. Now, our employment had.
See, Kennedy
was influenced, or he was a great supporter of the
Green Berets. You know, their organization where
they... Did you have anything to do with that? No.
The nature of their organization, you know, they
go in and they're teams and they organize. In other
words, with a few highly skilled Americans, we can
generate, you know, stability or... combat
without getting it and if they can it's a very
attractive and so Kennedy thought this is great
then maybe we can accomplish what we want to in
Vietnam without employing a lot of troops and but
just when I got to to Korea and now my assignment was
the assistant division commander for combat
operations We were scheduled to have an
amphibious operation, which I was given that
responsibility as soon as I got there. So we made
our plans, and we reconorded the area where we were
going to do it. And we had the ships identified, of
course, the Navy participation, and then the Gulf
of Tonkin occurred. 1964. What were your feelings
of the Gulf of Tonkin? Well, of course, that
distance I didn't know about, but I learned a lot
about it later. So
the Navy, of course, was diverted in. Everything
was towards the result of the Gulf of Tonkin. So
that amphibious was called off. And so we
continued to train. Then we had a Corps, two US
divisions. Now it's reduced to one. And good
training, because, see, you don't have any
dependents. You don't have anywhere to go. So you
train day and night. Well,
you don't train every night. But you can
concentrate, devote your full attention, which
you couldn't do in Europe. See, they have their
families, sick wives. Hi. How are you? Very good,
ma'am. I decided on the omelet. Would you rather
have coffee or tea? How long were you in Korea? A
little over a year. The
Korean people, I really liked them. Of course, I
had known a little bit about Korea in the month that
I was in during the war.
But they were really friendly. They loved music,
children, and flowers. They liked American
stuff. What did you think about their ability?
They tried to do everything that we do. Even they
designed their military officers. They
redesigned our black uniform and patterned our
flight jackets.
I learned, I think, that the women in Korea are
second class, you know. The husband, that's
wrong. Mama-son, she runs everything. in our
maneuvering around, sometimes we have to cross
their terrain. And you're wasting your time if you
talk to Papa's son. If you want to get something
done, you can talk to Mama's son. If he says yes and
she hadn't said yes, you're in trouble, you know,
couldn't you? So, like so many cultures in the
world, they make you think or let the males think
they're running things, but really they don't.
They let them talk big, smoke the pipe. How did the
troops get along with the Korean civilians?
Real well. What did you think of the fighting
ability of their army? Korean? Real fighting.
They're fierce fighters. They're near what the
Gurkhas were.
Because the Gurkhas, you know, they, we were
talking back in Italy, I'm going way back then,
they were great knife fighters. And they were near
us, and it wasn't unusual at all to have them to feel
at night the neck. They're looking to see if you had
dog tags. If you had dog tags, then you were
American. But whoa, be you if you didn't have your
dog tags on, because that'd cut your throat or cut
off your ears. Bring ears back to prove that the
bodies, I don't mean the Koreans were that brutal
and more civilized, I guess. But they did a
tremendous job, and Vietnam's a good example. In
fact, the Vietnamese soon learned to leave them
alone They'd probe and try to find where the
Americans were rather than get mixes with those
Koreans. Of course, the Koreans
were... I mentioned the Gurkhas. The Koreans are
kind of brutal. I mean, they don't show any mercy
either. But in Korea, we had, you know, in our
divisions there, we had Koreans in our American
divisions. Each company had a couple, or a few
Koreans. Oh, quite a few, 15 to 20. It was called the
Korean augmentation. And that presented sort of a
problem, because Americans, of course, got paid a
lot more. Sure. And the Koreans had the same
equipment. But if somebody stole something from a
Korean, you know, like a mess kit or something like
that. He really had a problem. Plus, he didn't have
money to spend in the PX. Later, we had a Katusa PX,
which they would rather have anyway because they
don't particularly like the same thing Americans
do. Right. And they don't particularly like our
food either because Koreans like kimchi. You ever
eat kimchi? I know it's down to here. H-E-B, they
sell it in the store. What is it? It's cabbage and
fish and garlic and they mix it all together and
they put it in a great big stone jar and bury it in the
ground. And I'm telling you, for wintertime. Do it
in summer, of course, when they're harvesting all
this stuff. Oh, it's terrible. You think
somebody's been eating garlic. It's about the
only way to get that rotten fish and garlic and all
this other thing. But they love that. In fact, I had
a I was up near the DMZ. I wasn't at the division
headquarters. I was at the DMZ at a real nice
general's mess. The brigade commander was there,
and several of the units were up there. And we had a
mess. We had waiters, Korean waiters that we paid.
And they'd come in in the wintertime to serve. And
his accent was so strong, you'd pick up a piece of
bread and it even tastes like that odor, you know.
So we finally got these characters. We said,
please, this is our mess. We're paying you. Please
don't eat kimchi. Well, yes, sir. We agreed.
They'd go for about two or three days, and then they
couldn't resist coming back again.
Recently, in the last couple of years, President
Carter was considering decreasing the number of
troops in Korea, and there was a lot of statements
that that would weaken our posture, and we
shouldn't do it, and we should maintain our
50-some thousand troops that we have in Korea.
What's your opinion? Should we have that many
troops there, or do you think that we should bring
some home? What do you think? Well,
of course, I think it should have stayed just like
it was when we were there
for stability and also to protect nuclear weapons
that we might have or might in the future have, that
sort of thing.
We control the Koreans. I should say we didn't
exactly control them. We might have tried to. But
we had a stabilizing effect on keeping the South
Koreans from attacking the North Koreans.
Because when they got strong and got the equipment
and so forth, they wanted to go unify their
country. And of course, the North Koreans feel the
same way, at least Kim, the commander. And it's
good training if you're going to maintain the
division. Now, you're going to say, now, I know
what you're doing. That shows you have a military
man in the unit. We know that if we move back a
division to the United States, the chances are
that it's going to be deactivated. You're just
going to have one less division. We need that
division. Japan's not strong.
And it's good because MacArthur's Constitution,
they can only have a defense force, and they say we
have a defense force. We can't use anything
offensively. Actually, they really don't have
sufficient strength for a defense force. And
they're very, Korea's very important to them.
And they're not going to do it. In fact, A few years
ago, we would be horrified if we even thought that
they were going to move something there, because
they see expansion, there they go again,
imperialistic.
And it's good training, and to have the forces
there. And it's stabilized. Now the main thing,
though, Carter, as far as I'm concerned, was a
disaster from the word go, although I wanted a
southerner to be successful, see. But it was a
disaster. So many things he did. If he had
negotiated, used that as a negotiating, you know,
with the North Koreans, for example, or to use it
somewhere as a chip for negotiating. But he just
unilaterally said, I'm going to take these out.
Same thing with the B-1. If you'd use that as a
negotiating to reduce, or the neutron weapon, for
example. Unilaterally, after convincing the
Germans finally to accept that as a very fine
weapon for defense without decimating their
country, see? Unilaterally, Smith read about it
in the paper. After he had gone to the people and
stuck his neck out, which was unpopular, and now
it's really unpopular now, with
the Germans, particularly the German youth, I'm
not the neutron, but any kind of weapon now, even
updating what we already have in missile.
So I thought it was a mistake then. I don't say we
shouldn't take them out someday. But see, I lived
through the other.
When the Secretary of State announced to the world
that our security line It was Japan, Taiwan,
Philippines, Okinawa, and on around. Eliminated
Korea. And then what happened? And if you said
that, then we phased out our troops. Now, North
Koreans look and said, well, they invited us. They
said, this isn't vital to the security of the
United States. So now's the time to move in. So they
attacked, and what happened? Harry Truman
managed to declare not an emergency, not a war, but
a police action. And then we found we were in a
full-blown war with no troops prepared, no
equipment. The units we had in Japan at that time
not only were understrength and under-equipped,
they weren't even... Some had a phantom, a ghost,
regiment because division had two regiments
under strength. Air Force wasn't ready at all.
Neither was the Navy. And all at once we found that
we were in a war. And so we know what happened. We put
in and we were in a battle and finally got kicked
around all the way down to the perimeter. and
fought back with all those casualties. Of course,
those casualties didn't seem so large now since we
had Vietnam all these years. That's another
question. When you were in Korea, did the Gulf of
Tonkin and then the subsequent buildup in Vietnam
have any impact on your maneuvers, your training,
your efficiency in Korea? Because there, just
like in Germany, we're supposed to be combat ready
to fight. It can't even be an alert there because
the DMZ, where we were sitting, we were up to see the
DMZ. And we had troops actually on the DMZ. 1st
Cavalry Division had troops on the DMZ. We don't
any longer. We go back where we don't man. And the
Koreans manned on the DMZ since we lost one
division.
No. We were always on alert, see, and we had
practice alert, just like we had in Europe. It was
easier there because we didn't have people out
living with their families in apartments, you
know, 15, 20 miles away. All you had to do was wake
the people up and get in the vehicles and move to
dispersal area. After that, from 65 to 68, you had
a, to me, it looks like a very important job in the
Pentagon. Oh, yeah. That
was in the National Military Command Center. As
Deputy Director of Operations and later Chief of
Far Eastern Division Plans and Policy. Yeah. All
in the Joint Staff. Thinking about a pressure job
now. That National Military Command Center.
Because you're actually the duty officer of the
world. and certainly the duty officer of the
United States, because all of the elements of
government look to this military command post to
answer questions, because we have the facility to
do that. What happens anywhere in the world? So
basically what you're doing in the National
Military Command Center is information? Command
and control of all the armed forces. U.S. and
deployed overseas.
And I'll describe, it's in the Pentagon, in the
Joint Staff's area. And of course you have to have
special clearance and a special path to get in.
Because then you don't have this, or sometimes you
have VIPs that they take in, and the Goldwater and a
few like that come in. But you have a brigadier
general or a flag officer on duty 24 hours a day.
And, of course, we have Air Force Navy admins in the
Army. And you have an assistant that sits there
with you. I say sit because it's a big room, almost
as big as a football field, but not quite. It's
almost an issue. configured almost like that. And
we're up here with all of our telephones. And out on
the floor, you have representatives of the CIA,
the State Department, Defense Intelligence,
USIA, and area specialists, which could be manned
by Army, Navy, Air Force. It doesn't make any
difference. So that every part of the world, you
have an individual who is monitoring on an
hour-to-hour basis, day-to-day, what the
situation is there, what we have. In the case of the
Navy, they can answer where all of the ships are.
They monitor all of the ships worldwide. The
Persian government, any time, they can tell you
what it is.
I'm sorry to interrupt, but I'm starting to...
Shall we continue? Yeah, one thing
that I failed to say about Korea that had an effect
on my career was that I had developed a back
problem, a herniated disc. I don't know what
caused it. It just happened. Spinal disc? Yeah.
And so I spent considerable time, about three
weeks, in the hospital. And it results with that
physical problem. In Korea? You were in the
hospital in Korea? Yeah. If I was in the States, I'd
probably go to Walton Reed where they had the
surgery, but I wanted to finish my tour in Korea
because this happened halfway through the tour.
So I continued on, but I had to get out of the
hospital, but not up to really the efficiency you
expect someone to do. And there's no question that
affected my career from then on because I always
had this problem that you lift anything or run,
pain comes back, still does. Of course, I've
learned now there's no reason for exertion. Well,
John, we'll get back to the military command
center. And you were telling me about the
functions and duties there. Right. If you
visualize all of these people and with their
knowledge and their accessibility to, because
they themselves continually got updated, I don't
mean every second, but they were sure that from
their sources, and the Army has an operations
center, the Navy does, and the Air Force, but this
was, and we were all tied into them, so we were fed
information from everyone. The key part,
however, to the facility was the communication we
had. And it was off to the side. And we could speak
directly to any command element in the world where
we had U.S. And each day we would test that command.
We'd actually come home with a conference call,
the flag officer. would go in in the communication
because the outside was local communications
type of thing. But this was the
powerful communication. And they didn't even,
communication even had a capability. If you had a
weak signal, they could raise the volume on that
signal. Would it be by satellite? Yeah, they used
satellite, the whole range of communication. And
we also have an airborne command post, and a Navy
command post. So we would bring them in this
community check, communication check with the
others.
We'd go to use the . I'll say every place that we had a
command. I don't mean down a lower level, but we had
the capability of doing that. For example, we had a
The bomb says, let's see, we had
a month or two which there was no bombing in North
Vietnam. But the situation was such that the
decision had been made to resume bombing.
Secretary of State called, I happened to be on
duty, And he says, this is very important. I want to
know when the first bomb drops in the resumption of
bombing in North Vietnam. Now, he pointed out this
is important because we have pre-positioned
messages at all of our embassies in the world. And I
don't want to prematurely release this for
weather conditions or reason, you know, that we
really can't execute the mission. Can you let me
know immediately? And I said, yes, sir. So all we
did was go through the sink back with this powerful
communication, went on into the carriers were
going to make the first strike. To them, I talked to
the, it wasn't a captain, it was an officer on, I
guess a man in their community, their duty officer
on the carrier, and explained what our situation
was and can you let me know when the first bomb is
dropped. No abortion or anything like that the
first time. He said, absolutely. He says, I'll
patch in right now to the flight commander. And you
will hear him tell me when he has dropped, when the
bomb's away. So here I am monitoring with the clock
ticking along. So pretty soon you heard. Of
course, I was a little bit weaker because he was
coming from the radio. And he says, bombs away. So
immediately it called up the State Department. It
was just a matter of, well, almost
simultaneously. We had in Washington the word.
Now you don't like to do that because you tie up a lot
of communication. You like to deal only with the
headquarters rather than go on down. But you just
heard the fighter pilot just say, bombs away.
Yeah, he gave a... The word, it might have been
other words at that time, but anyway, whatever he
said, the indication. Right at that second, you
got on the phone and called the State Department.
Yeah, exactly. So the Secretary of State knew
about that almost simultaneously, just a few
minutes. That's just an example of the
communication, how it worked. That's fantastic.
Now, you get involved with a lot of things.
On the desk of the flag officer is a red telephone.
That's directly to the president from the White
House. And whenever that red light comes on,
flashes, it actually flashes. Of course, you also
hear a signal. When you pick that up, there's no
secretary on there. It's the president himself.
And usually he calls. This was LBJ. He'd call about
2 or 3 o'clock in the morning. Some said perhaps he
had a bladder problem, but he slept very little.
And he had, he monitored all of television, CBS,
NBC, all of them at the same time, plus radio. And if
a news flash came over about a strike
in Vietnam, say they had heavy casualties,
several planes were lost, these are just news
reports, he'd be on that line asking He wanted an
update, because I just heard that. Can you tell me
about it? Well, while you're talking, of course,
we have all the information we have that my
assistant, who's also, he's on the line, and he
signals the individual whose area we're talking
about. Of course, it's always Vietnam. So he ran up
with a map, put it up in front, and he was handing
information while we were talking to the
president, trying to answer his questions. Of
course, oftentimes we didn't have it, so we just
had to tell you, well, Mr. President, we don't have
an update on that. I'll notify your situation room
just as soon as we have it. And he said, all right,
thank you. White House has a situation room, too,
where they monitor these things. And often he
called them, but he finally got word that they
didn't know because they'd have to get the
information from us. So they, too, were always
asking us, please update us on this, because they
anticipated he might come. His son-in-law was up
near Khe Sanh.
And he was very anxious about a situation up there.
He didn't say, I don't wonder if my son-in-law was
there. Obviously, what was happening? I
shouldn't even say that, because he was
interested in every single thing. It really hurt
him to have a report that a pilot had been lost. It
really hurt LBJ. Yeah. He wanted to say any chance
to find that pilot. Of course, you can't answer
that, I mean, here. And you don't go back like I've
said and try to find out the unit. Sure. But it's a
normal routine.
But when his son-in-law was over in Vietnam, he was
on the phone more often asking about the area? No,
he seemed to call now. While I was on duty, I guess he
called me four times. And I guess the other flag
also on duty, probably about the same area. That's
over a period of a year that I was there. So he didn't
call every night. But it was always, the call was
generated by something that he had just seen or
heard on the radio or television, particularly at
night. And some said it wasn't a bladder problem,
but he just couldn't sleep. Didn't only need two or
three hours of sleep. And he wanted to talk to
somebody. Sometimes in the daytime, they'd say,
get me that general on the phone. And they meant
that general in the National Military Command
Center. But he sure took a personal interest and
suffered with all those guys, so they can't. Of
course, he was under great pressure to recall, you
know, yelling at him, LBJ, how many did you kill
today? Another example of a domestic problem that
we were confronted with I don't know whether you
remember or not, but we had this massive blackout
in the northeastern part of the United States. Do
you remember that? No. And
so I got a call from, it wasn't the governor of New
York, because apparently he wasn't there. I guess
he was Rockefeller at the time, but the lieutenant
governor. And I forget his name. It was an Italian
name. He says, uh, everybody thought, you know,
eventually, or momentarily, they'd get this
corrected. But what bothered, for example, the
Lieutenant Governor, it wasn't just a blackout in
New York City, it went all the way upstate and in
Connecticut and all the way, of course, because it
eventually found out it was in the Niagara Falls
areas where the problem was. But he was asking for
help. He said, we need New York City particularly.
Is there something that could be done? And he had
already called, apparently, Secretary
McNamara. McNamara called me a few minutes later
and said, say, these people in New York City need
some help. And I said, yes. I just had a call from the
lieutenant governor asking for help. And he says,
uh. What about the ships in New York Harbor? Why
can't they generate electricity? One of the
problems is they didn't have electricity in New
York City to start their auxiliary generator, the
power to start the auxiliary generator. That's
really one of the problems.